feat(genapi): add info about cost estimator MTA-7130 (#6489)
scaleway/docs-content: pages/generative-apis/reference-content/cost-estimator.mdx

---
title: Understanding Generative APIs costs
description: Compare costs for the different deployment options of Scaleway Generative APIs - Serverless versus Dedicated Deployment.
tags: generative-apis how-much cost charge
dates:
  validation: 2026-05-11
  posted: 2026-05-11
---

Understanding the financial impact of AI workloads is essential for making informed decisions. The Cost estimator (available via the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com/generative-api/cost-estimator)) provides a clear, side‑by‑side view of how the same generative workload behaves under the different deployment options offered by Scaleway: [Generative APIs - Serverless versus Generative APIs Dedicated Deployment](/generative-apis/faq/#what-is-the-difference-between-serverless-and-dedicated-deployment).

<Message type="note">

>   - The Cost estimator provides an estimate based on standard benchmarks (with significant concurrency and a low cache hit rate). Only performance tests in production, based on the customer's workload, can provide a fully accurate estimate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The Cost estimator provides an estimate based on standard benchmarks, assuming significant concurrency and a low cache hit rate. Only performance tests in production, based on your actual workload, can provide a fully accurate estimate.
```

>   - Performance may vary significantly for extreme input/output ratios (e.g., 100:1 or 1:10), because processing will be bottlenecked by either input or output processing in these cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Performance may vary significantly for extreme input/output ratios (e.g., 100:1 or 1:10). In these cases, processing is bottlenecked by either input-heavy or output-heavy workloads.
```

>   - In the case of dedicated deployments, caching is implicit and dedicated to a user, which can significantly improve performance for use cases with many similar input tokens (e.g., a long system prompt with a common prefix across requests, typical of long conversations).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - For dedicated deployments, caching is implicit and exclusive to each user. This can significantly improve performance for use cases with many similar input tokens, such as a long system prompt with a common prefix shared across requests, typical of extended conversations.
```

</Message>

## Compare costs

1. Log in to the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com/).

> 1. Click **Generative APIs** in the **AI** section of the side menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click **Generative APIs** in the **AI** section of the side menu.
```

> 2. Select the **Cost estimator** tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Select the **Cost estimator** tab.
```

> 3. Model your workload by setting the following: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Model your workload by setting the following: 
```

    - **Number of users**
    - **Queries per user per day**
    - **Hours of usage/day**
    - **Load**

> 4. Set your chosen **Model** and **GPU**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Set your chosen **Model** and **GPU**.
```

    The estimator instantly calculates the total monthly cost for both Serverless and Dedicated modes.

> 5. Compare cost differences side‑by‑side. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Compare cost differences side‑by‑side. 
```
